I’ll now configure the PCs and make sure that they can ping each other.
So show ip on PC shows no IP address
and I'm going to set an IP address on this PC of 10.1.1.1
On PC 2 show ip no IP address so ip address 10.1.1.2
and let’s see if the PC can ping each other.
So what you’ll notice is PC 2 is able to ping PC 1, PC 1 is able to ping PC 2.
and just to prove that I’m gonna shut the ports down the routers.
So router 1 int f2/0 shut it down, 2/1 shut it down
what you’ll notice now is PC 1 is not able to ping PC 2
if I enable the first interface
interfaces come up, pings will still be failing
because Spanning Tree takes time to converge.
So show spanning-tree you can see the port is listening.
show spanning-tree, port now is forwarding
so 2/0 is forwarding and pings now succeed.
If I enable f2/1 pings are still succeeding.
show spanning-tree this port is in the listening state but this port is forwarding
but traffic is still going across this 2/0 interface.